MULE-16610: Transaction management with Error Handling (#618)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/transaction-management.adoc

Any other router or scope (for example, Foreach) continues with the transaction and its behavior is not modified.

== Error Handling

> When working with transactions, we need to know how to handle errors. This includes to continue with the transaction even if an specific error occurs, or to handle correctly the rollback. 

Reviewer: Something about this wording bothers me (the `we`, for instance). Can you check, @Cristian-Venticinque ?

Reviewer 2: Rewrote this in PR: #621:
"When an error occurs during a transaction, your application must be able to handle the error and continue with the transaction or do a rollback."

As mentioned in the xref:on-error-scope-concept.adoc[On-Error Scope], there are two types of Error Handlers, which relate differently with Transactions:

> * On Error Propagate: If the `on-error-propagate` is in the Error Handler corresponding to the component that began the Transaction, then it rollbacks it **before executing the inner processors of the On Error Propagate Scope**. Thus, the inner processor do not run within the transaction. If the `on-error-propagate` is inside an inner element that did not start the Transaction, then it is not rolled back and the inner processors of such `on-error-propagate` remain running within the Transaction. Remember that running within a Transaction affect different scopes and routers. 

Reviewer: `rollbacks it  ` -> `rolls it back`

Author: ```suggestion
* On Error Propagate: If the `on-error-propagate` is in the Error Handler corresponding to the component that began the Transaction, then it rolls it back **before executing the inner processors of the On Error Propagate Scope**. Thus, the inner processor do not run within the transaction. If the `on-error-propagate` is inside an inner element that did not start the Transaction, then it is not rolled back and the inner processors of such `on-error-propagate` remain running within the Transaction. Remember that running within a Transaction affect different scopes and routers. 
```

> * On Error Propagate: If the `on-error-propagate` is in the Error Handler corresponding to the component that began the Transaction, then it rollbacks it **before executing the inner processors of the On Error Propagate Scope**. Thus, the inner processor do not run within the transaction. If the `on-error-propagate` is inside an inner element that did not start the Transaction, then it is not rolled back and the inner processors of such `on-error-propagate` remain running within the Transaction. Remember that running within a Transaction affect different scopes and routers. 

Reviewer: `the inner processor do not run within ` -> `the processors in the error handler do not run within `

Author: ```suggestion
* On Error Propagate: If the `on-error-propagate` is in the Error Handler corresponding to the component that began the Transaction, then it rollbacks it **before executing the inner processors of the On Error Propagate Scope**. Thus, the processors in the Error Handler do not run within the transaction. If the `on-error-propagate` is inside an inner element that did not start the Transaction, then it is not rolled back and the inner processors of such `on-error-propagate` remain running within the Transaction. Remember that running within a Transaction affect different scopes and routers. 
```

> * On Error Propagate: If the `on-error-propagate` is in the Error Handler corresponding to the component that began the Transaction, then it rollbacks it **before executing the inner processors of the On Error Propagate Scope**. Thus, the inner processor do not run within the transaction. If the `on-error-propagate` is inside an inner element that did not start the Transaction, then it is not rolled back and the inner processors of such `on-error-propagate` remain running within the Transaction. Remember that running within a Transaction affect different scopes and routers. 

Reviewer: general comment about the paragraph: it is not clear what `inner` is relative to. Can you rephrase?

Author: ```suggestion
* On Error Propagate: If the `on-error-propagate` is in the Error Handler corresponding to the component that began the Transaction, then it rolls it backs **before executing the processors of the On Error Propagate Scope**. Thus, those processors inside the error handler do not run within the transaction. If the `on-error-propagate` is inside an inner element that did not start the Transaction, then it is not rolled back and the inner processors of such `on-error-propagate` remain running within the Transaction. Remember that running within a Transaction affect different scopes and routers. 
```

> * On Error Continue: the error is threated as managed and the Transaction remains active (and is able to commit). The inner processors of the On Error Continue run within the Transaction.

Reviewer: `threated ` -> `trwated` or `handled`

Author: ```suggestion
* On Error Continue: the error is treated as managed and the Transaction remains active (and is able to commit). The inner processors of the On Error Continue run within the Transaction.
```

> * On Error Continue: the error is threated as managed and the Transaction remains active (and is able to commit). The inner processors of the On Error Continue run within the Transaction.

Reviewer: what does `managed` mean here?

> * On Error Continue: the error is threated as managed and the Transaction remains active (and is able to commit). The inner processors of the On Error Continue run within the Transaction.

Reviewer: same concern about the word `inner`

For example:

.
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="someFlowWithTx">
	<jms:listener config-ref="JMS_Config" destination="test.in" transactionalAction="ALWAYS_BEGIN"/>
	<!-- Processors -->
	<try>
		<raise-error type="APP:SOME"/>
		<error-handler>
			<on-error-propagate>
				<logger message="Fails"/>
			</on-error-propagate>
		</error-handler>
	</try>
	<error-handler>
		<on-error-continue>
			<logger message="continue with tx"/>
		</on-error-continue>
	</error-handler>
</flow>
----

> In the example, the message source (`jms:listener`) starts a Transaction, which is continued by the `try` Scope (`transactionalAction` is set to default, `INDIFFERENT`). When the error is raised, it is handled by the `error-handler` of the `try` Scope first. Even when the error is handled by an `on-error-propagate`, the Transaction is not rolled back, since it was not the `try` Scope the one that started it, so only the error handler of the flow can rollback the Transaction which was began at flow level. Then, the `logger` inside the `on-error-propagate` will continue running within the Transaction. The error is then propagated to the flow's `error-handler`, which handles it with an `on-error-continue`. The `logger` inside such `on-error-continue` runs within the transaction. Finally, the transaction is commited. 

Reviewer: I would wait for @afelisatti or @pablolagreca to return and review this before merging

> In the example, the message source (`jms:listener`) starts a Transaction, which is continued by the `try` Scope (`transactionalAction` is set to default, `INDIFFERENT`). When the error is raised, it is handled by the `error-handler` of the `try` Scope first. Even when the error is handled by an `on-error-propagate`, the Transaction is not rolled back, since it was not the `try` Scope the one that started it, so only the error handler of the flow can rollback the Transaction which was began at flow level. Then, the `logger` inside the `on-error-propagate` will continue running within the Transaction. The error is then propagated to the flow's `error-handler`, which handles it with an `on-error-continue`. The `logger` inside such `on-error-continue` runs within the transaction. Finally, the transaction is commited. 

Reviewer: use other components to illustrate that a transaction is still active rather than loggers. For instance, a jms consume

> If the `flow` had an `on-error-propagate` instead of `on-error-continue`, then the transactional is would have been rolled back, and the logger within that `on-error-propagate` will not run within the Transaction. 

Reviewer: `transactional is would have been ` -> `transactional would have been `

Author: ```suggestion
If the `flow` had an `on-error-propagate` instead of `on-error-continue`, then the transactional would have been rolled back, and the logger within that `on-error-propagate` will not run within the Transaction. 
```

> This example has the same explanation if, instead of having a Try Scope, we work with a Flow Reference to another flow: 

Reviewer: Try Scope -> `try` scope

Author: ```suggestion
This example has the same explanation if, instead of having a `try` Scope, we work with a Flow Reference to another flow: 
```

> This example has the same explanation if, instead of having a Try Scope, we work with a Flow Reference to another flow: 

Reviewer: `we` -> @Cristian-Venticinque ?

> This example has the same explanation if, instead of having a Try Scope, we work with a Flow Reference to another flow: 

Reviewer: `This example has the same explanation if` ?

Author: ```suggestion
If, instead of having a Try Scope, we work with a Flow Reference to another flow, the behavior will be exactly the same as the previous example: 
```

.
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="someFlowWithTx">
	<jms:listener config-ref="JMS_Config" destination="test.in" transactionalAction="ALWAYS_BEGIN"/>
	<!-- Processors -->
	<flow-ref name="someFlowContinuesTx"/>
	<error-handler>
		<on-error-continue>
			<logger message="continue with tx"/>
		</on-error-continue>
	</error-handler>
</flow>

<flow name="someFlowContinuesTx">
	<raise-error type="APP:SOME"/>
	<error-handler>
		<on-error-propagate>
			<logger message="Fails"/>
		</on-error-propagate>
	</error-handler>
</flow>
----

> Since the `someFlowContinuesTx` Flow is not the one that started the transaction, then its Error Handler will not rollback it. 

Reviewer: `rollback it` -> `roll it back`

Author: ```suggestion
Since the `someFlowContinuesTx` Flow is not the one that started the transaction, then its Error Handler will not roll it back. 
```

As mentioned in the xref:on-error-scope-concept.adoc[On-Error Scope], there are two types of Error Handlers, which relate differently with Transactions:

> * On Error Propagate: If the `on-error-propagate` is in the Error Handler corresponding to the component that began the Transaction, then it rolls it backs **before executing the processors of the On Error Propagate Scope**. Thus, those processors inside the error handler do not run within the transaction. If the `on-error-propagate` is inside an inner element that did not start the Transaction, then it is not rolled back and the inner processors of such `on-error-propagate` remain running within the Transaction. Remember that running within a Transaction affect different scopes and routers. 

Reviewer: `rolls it backs ` -> `rolls it back `
